Research has suggested that it is a bad
idea to buy any IPO and it is especially
a bad idea to buy an unprofitable IPO.
And it is also probably a bad idea to
buy an IPO with a small float. Many of
the new IPOs are going to like check
those boxes.
>> Hi Telis.
>> Hi Miriam.
>> So, this is a really exciting day. It's
SpaceX IPO day when we are recording
right now. The shares priced at $135
and they opened at 150. So, we got an
11% pop right out of the gate and as of
this recording they were continuing to
surge higher.
>> I would argue that that's exactly what
they were probably aiming for. Let's
look at the long-term averages for IPOs.
If you take IPOs going all the way back
to 1980 and this is of course thanks to
Jay Ritter at the University of
Florida's data. He's the benchmark guru
of IPO data. The average pop across all
IPOs is about 19%. So,
you know, if SpaceX ends up there at the
end of the trading day,
uh that would be totally unaverage
across all IPOs. And in fact, it would
be better than big IPOs. Big IPOs,
companies with
um
uh larger kind of annual sales when they
go public, they tend to have smaller
pops, right? Uh the number for companies
with over $500 million in
inflation-adjusted kind of annual sales,
uh the average pop is about 10%.
>> And this is a big IPO. This is the
biggest IPO ever.
>> And you would have expected maybe
because it floated such a relatively
small amount of its stock in the deal,
less than 5% at least in the initial
sale. We'll see where it ends up after
the banks exercise their green shoe,
which look it up. It gets kind of
technical, but that could end up issuing
more stock. Um you might have expected a
lower float IPO to have a bigger pop
because there was such scarcity, but I
would say that it maybe that was not the
right expectation just because we're
obviously talking about such enormous
dollar amounts here, right? $75 billion
is what they raised in the IPO.
Even if there was, you know, 2x that
demand. I mean, that's just so much
money.
>> And 20% from retail investors who are
usually the ones who are driving the
shares higher after the shares opened.
>> Yeah, Miriam, with what you read about
these days, you're really close to that.
What what what do you think how are our
retail investors happy with that? Do you
think a lot of people a lot of
individual investors walked away saying,
"Hey, I got in the deal."
>> Well, yeah, I talked to a Morgan Stanley
advisor earlier today who said that his
clients actually got their full request
or almost their full request. He was
pretty shocked by that, but he also
heard about other people within, you
know, Morgan Stanley who didn't get it.
So, it was kind of a little bit all over
the map, but you know, I think
all bets were off. Like, he wasn't
really expecting to get that much
because he doesn't have like a high
index, which is this way that you rank
um, you know, advisors in terms of
whether they have a long track record of
buying IPOs and their clients have
>> As we've talked about a lot, you don't
just get You don't just show up and get
an IPO. You got to buy all the, as we
put it the other day, I think you got to
kiss all the frogs before you get the
prince of IPOs. You got to buy every
deal whether they're hot or not.
>> Yeah. So, I think more people were
getting more shares allocated than they
expected in general.
>> Now, that's interesting cuz that's
typically in the past been a bad sign
for IPOs, right? Like the as you might
imagine, listeners, if you're if you're
cynical,
that you know, that they don't they
don't save the very best IPOs for the
very smallest investors that often
times, you know, the IPOs that end up
with larger retail allocations are ones
that maybe had trouble selling it to
institutional investors at the price
they wanted. And when people are
surprised by the amount of stock they
got, which is something that did happen
back with Facebook's IPO way back in a
previous generation of IPO.
>> That's historically been a red flag.
>> Yeah, and Facebook's IPO, now we know
the stock later, you know, did just
fine. But at least in the short-term
aftermath of the IPO it didn't do so hot
because people were just like, "Oh, I I
got more than I wanted." Right? So so if
if that ends up being the case in
SpaceX, yet it still kind of has and
maintains this pop, that will be
interesting and I think we'll we'll have
to figure out why that is. I I do have
some theories though.
>> Well, there was a hundred over a hundred
billion worth of retail demand and
that amount was not allocated. So
there's definitely demand that was not
fulfilled among retail investors. So I
mean I think you kind of have both
scenarios playing out here.
>> And SpaceX is singular in that it's it's
it's SpaceX, it's a space company,
right? This isn't just another
you know, a software company going
public, right? It's got a unique appeal
and obviously there's the Elon Musk
factor. And we know that Elon Musk
whatever whatever whatever you might
think of everything around him has a a
has the ability to garner up a
passionate retail following. Everybody
who rode Tesla's IPO when all of the all
the smarties were telling them that it
was way overvalued and the numbers were
all crazy and that it didn't really make
any money. Well, you know, people stuck
with it and they were rewarded for that
for a long time. So so probably there's
just there's just an Elon Musk factor
here.
>> Totally. We actually got a couple of
interesting
comments from listeners. We had a call
out last week asking you about your
thoughts on IPOs and SpaceX.
One listener said they are investing
zero dollars in SpaceX. Okay, that's
your prerogative. Another listener said
they think it's a bad idea for indexes
to include untested business models. And
you know, we are going to have a bigger
conversation about that coming up in a
bit.
And the S&P 500 agrees with that
listener. That you know, index decided
not to change its rules and not to speed
up the inclusion of SpaceX and other
mega IPOs.
>> Because the thing keeping it out of of
the S&P 500 at least in the near term,
would have been A that it was recently
listed. Normally, you need to be listed
for for a while.
>> Yes.
>> Uh and then you need a uh
>> You need a seasoning period.
>> a seasoning period, but also importantly
profitable. Uh SpaceX is not a
profitable company. It's investing a ton
in its business, etc. And so, you would
normally need that to be in the S&P 500.
It was one reason that Tesla was not in
the S&P 500 index for a long time.
>> Yeah, and we're going to talk about
indexes and all of the criteria for
being in them, how those are changing,
how some of them have uh fast-tracked
these mega IPOs. But I also wanted to
note that we got another comment from a
listener named Mike, who said, "I have a
modest beneficiary IRA for my mother.
Mountain Mama was a shrewd investor who
loved to own stocks in companies she
believed in. She was a big fan of Elon
Musk and made a lot of money on Tesla
stock. I am selling half the Tesla stock
and buying SpaceX shares at the IPO.
Time will tell if that is wise on my
part, but it feels right."
>> Well, there you go.
>> And I think that's also interesting cuz
it points to the sources of cash that
people are using to buy these shares.
We've already seen Tesla stock fall a
little bit as other investors make that
trade.
>> Before we get to our main conversation,
we should note because, you know, the
the world keeps turning even after
SpaceX debuts, that this upcoming week
will be Kevin Warsh's first
Fed meeting where he is presiding as the
chair of the Fed. Now, his presence
there
probably won't affect whatever the Fed
is going to do at that meeting with
regards to interest rates. The
expectation is that they are not going
to move uh at at this particular point
in time. What people will be looking for
are whether or not he starts to talk
about some of his larger aims for the
Fed.
He's talked about the Fed's balance
sheet, how to shrink that. Will he say
anything about that maybe at the press
conference? But also, what will he do
about the Fed's
process for making economic projections?
Kevin Warsh has talked in the past about
how he doesn't think the Fed should do
that or they should change how they do
that. We'll see if he makes any
commentary about that. That's what
people might be looking for in that.
>> I'm quite excited for that, but
uh maybe not quite as excited as seeing
how SpaceX plays out. Um and we have a
really interesting guest to talk to us
about indexes and what it means to
include SpaceX in these indexes at a
more rapid pace than I you know big IPOs
would have been included in the past.
>> And I think there's two things to think
about there. One is as an investor
should you be concerned about this? Is
this a problem for you? I don't want
this company in my index.
>> people write in to us to say that.
>> Had many people say that.
Also, I think as I mentioned before,
part of my theory of why the stock has
done well might also have to do with the
role that indexes play in trading
shortly after a company goes public. So,
something to look ahead to next week is
you know, when indexes do start to add
SpaceX as as many will, what effect will
that have on trading? And then what
impact did that have retroactively on
where the IPO priced and where it
opened? That'll be really interesting to
to talk about in this upcoming week and
the weeks ahead.
>> We are going to take a quick break and
when we come back, we'll have a great
conversation with Owen Lamont, portfolio
manager at Acadian Asset Management. We
had this conversation with him before
the SpaceX IPO, so just keep that in
mind as you're listening to it.
>> We'll have that right after the break.
>> [music]
>> Owen Lamont, welcome to Take on the
Week.
>> Hi, good to be here.
>> So, I just wanted to start out by
talking about these big mega cap IPOs. I
mean, we are seeing them
entering indexes much earlier than they
ever have in the past and the biggest
thing we want to know is is that a good
thing or a bad thing?
>> Well, the context is there has not been
a lot of IPOs in the United States in
the past 3 years, mega cap or otherwise.
So, we're kind of in a drought, in a
desert of IPOs.
And if we do see a huge wave of giant
IPOs in the coming months,
I'm going to say it's a bad thing. Well,
it's a bad thing in the sense that it
signals the market might be overvalued.
Now, I think you know, IPOs are fine,
IPOs are good, IPOs are part of a
healthy economy, but a wave of IPOs, I
would think would be a sign that
companies are selling equity because
they think the equity is overvalued.
However,
I would agree with the
general idea that there has been an
unseemly rush to add mega cap IPOs to
the indices early,
and um is probably not going to benefit
existing shareholders. But, I think that
it's a it's defensible, what the most of
the decisions the indexes have made, but
is not a super great thing for retail
investors.
It's always a trade-off between just
past just being passive and not worrying
about it and then trying to worry about
every little thing. And if you're an
index investor, you've already decided
not to worry about every little thing.
So,
it's not it's not a a huge concern of
mine, but it is part of a general
pattern of you might think the whole
market's overvalued or slightly getting
overvalued.
>> So, there've been a couple of decisions
that I think of on that front that have
gotten outsized attention. And the first
one I think is the Nasdaq addition.
Nasdaq is the exchange where SpaceX will
list.
And talk to us about what is unique
about the Nasdaq 100 index and why, you
know, investors might be paying special
attention to how it treats a company
like SpaceX.
>> So, the most important thing to
understand about the IPO process as it
relates to indexes is the word float.
Float. So,
uh SpaceX, for example, has a pretty
small float.
Current estimates are about 4%, which
means 96% of it is not being sold sold
in the IPO. It's going to be sold later,
months later.
>> So, just to be clear, float is the part
of the company that is tradeable, but
not necessarily the overall size of the
company. So, the company might have, I'm
just making this up, you know, they
might have uh, 10 million shares, but
only
5 million of them or less, whatever, are
tradeable today. The rest are still
locked up.
>> 50% float, which would be uh,
pretty normal for an IPO after 6 months,
for example. But, um, some stocks have
super small float, have always had super
small float, and some stocks start with
super small float at the IPO, and then
then the float heads towards 50 or 100%
90% later. So, anyway, um,
it used to be in the old days that index
funds were not float weighted, they were
cap weighted.
>> And cap weighted is market
capitalization, right? Like the market
value of the company was
>> Right.
>> the factor that was used to to determine
the size of it in the index.
>> For most stocks, the the float is like
90%, so there's no real difference
between float weighting and cap
weighting. But, there are some stocks
out there that have a tiny tiny little
float, and appropriately, the indices
most indices choose not to include them.
Okay, so we're get we're getting kind of
nerdy in the weeds here. But, Nasdaq is
an example of an index that is not float
weighted, and therefore, it is um,
arguable that it's going to be over
weighting a very small float IPO, such
as SpaceX. So, that's one thing about
Nasdaq is it it used to have a rule that
said, we're not going to be float
weighted, but we won't let you in unless
you have a sufficient float.
So, Nasdaq has waived that rule in the
case of mega cap IPOs. If you're an
index, there's three decisions you have
to make about an IPO, whether to add the
IPO,
when to add the IPO and at what weight
to add the IPO. So, we just talked about
the weight part, the float versus the
cap. But, the the other two things are
whether to add the IPO. Many
index funds have what makes sense to me,
a good rule. You you have to have at
least 10% float, say, to be in the
index. The third thing we have to talk
about is the speed, the speed at which
you add, and that's usually called the
seasoning period. So, in the case of
S&P, for example, the S&P 500 index, you
can't add it until at least a year has
passed. So, like I said, there's a
seasoning period of a year. And um the
seasoning period has always been pretty
short for some some indices, as short as
5 days. And other indices have recently
shortened it in anticipation of SpaceX.
So, the
complaint people make about Nasdaq is
they're adding it too soon. They're
adding it when they shouldn't because
the float is too small, and they're
adding it at too big a weight. Now,
they're they are trying to Nasdaq is
trying to adjust the weight, but um
that's the complaint, anyway.
>> And what is the problem with not
adjusting for float?
>> Okay, let let me give you an example.
Suppose
uh you had a IPO that was valued uh that
had 100 shares, and you just issued one
share. And the one share trades hand for
uh a trillion dollars, you know, Elon
Musk trades it with himself a trillion
dollars. Now, you have a hundred
trillion dollar company that's
supposedly supposed to that's the value,
but it's not a real value cuz it's not a
real price.
>> Mhm.
>> So, the the reason we want to have
sufficient float is we want a real
honest price that reflects different
people coming together and not not and
it doesn't necessarily have to be
something uh uh dishonest or
manipulation. It's just like a tiny
little float is really not going to be a
market that is a real price. So, the
nightmare scenario is you have an IPO
with a tiny little float, it's super
volatile, and it it's just chaos, and
maybe the index funds end up buying it
at the at the at the price that's at a
price that is not an equilibrium price.
You could argue whether we should we
should be talking about the float in
percent or the float in billions of
dollars, but to
the history of index funds is lots of
problems like that when they don't float
adjust and they just cap weight.
>> So, let's say let's say SpaceX float
wasn't an issue.
Um,
or just you know, maybe this is not the
case for other IPOs. Is the speed of
addition an issue, right? Is saying
we're going to add this company to our
index after three or four days versus
waiting a month or two. What's what's
the issue there? What's what's the
problem with
>> Okay. with with doing it too fast?
>> C- couple couple issues. One is um,
there's the fact that in the first
traditionally in the first month after
the IPO, there is a process that the
investment bankers, the underwriters do
called price stabilization. And price
stabilization is basically price
manipulation or it's legal price
manipulation. It's It's their attempting
they the underwriters are attempting to
establish a stable orderly market and
they are stepping in to intervene when
the price gets too low to prevent the
price from going too low. So, first
thing I would say is in the first month,
it's not really a equilibrium price.
It's It's a It's It's a price that has
been like kind of, you know, nudged up
and down. Uh, perhaps benevolently, but
it it is not a is not an honest price.
So, I would not call it an honest price.
So, that's one thing is price
stabilization by the underwriters.
Second thing is it just takes time to
organize stuff. So, when the index funds
add an IPO, the index funds firstly
they're going to end up buying 20% of
the shares cuz that's how much uh, of
the
20 or 30% of the shares. That's how much
indexing is. So, somebody needs to sell
it to the index on the day that they get
added. And it takes time for that
somebody, the arbitrageurs to acquire
the shares and get ready and to to sell
it on the index addition day. So, to me
five days is not fast enough. It's not
It's not enough time.
Uh, I think, you know, six months sounds
like a better amount of time to me or 12
months.
Um, and there's actually academic
research by uh Marco Sammon of Harvard
Business School and his co-author, which
shows that there already some indices
that add on five days on day five of the
IPO, and it doesn't lead to good
outcomes. It leads to like the price
going up right on in a right on the day
that the index get gets added to the
IPO. So, to me, uh you there is just um
uh we need a process of price discovery,
and it needs to take place over multiple
months and not over just a few days.
>> So, now S&P 500, of course, the other
major index that we talk about all the
time, decided not to include SpaceX or
not not to immediately include SpaceX
and to wait and, you know, go through
its normal process.
>> They were considering two rule changes
around mega cap IPOs, and that would be
to um
include them sooner, right? To to to
allow them to enter
uh more quickly than they would have
before, and then also to waive their
profitability right requirement. I I
forget the exact term they use, but but
but there's something around kind of uh
uh uh
>> A certain number of quarters of
profitability.
>> right? So, so So, before they would even
consider a company, they had to have a
certain number of quarters or a year of
profitability.
>> And of course, SpaceX, as we've talked
about on the show, is not yet
profitable.
>> Right. So, had they adopted that, SpaceX
could have been added despite not being
profitable and sooner. But but S&P made
the decision not to change its rules
that would impact the S&P.
>> So, I mean, what will be the
ramifications of having one major index
with SpaceX in it and another one
without it? Does Does that matter at all
to passive investors?
>> I mean, that's always been the case. So,
you mentioned the S&P's profitability
rule. For many years, Tesla was not in
the S&P, and Tesla was a major company
that was a major part of the US stock
market, and other indices that didn't
have that rule included it. So, there's
always some diversity across indices. To
me, as an economist, what I would like
is just a very broad index that holds
everything. There's no rules about
profitability or what exchange you're
on. And that to me is the ideal passive
fund. But we don't live in that world.
We live in a world with
variety of different index for
historical reasons. My advice to a
retail investor would just be
get a target date fund, put all your
money in the target date fund, let
somebody else worry about the different
indices and which ones are best.
>> But is profitability something that
investors is that like a baseline that
investors should care about? It's been
interesting talking to people
in our newsroom, talking to people, you
know, just in my life about the SpaceX
IPO. They said, "Well, I understand the
S&P 500 is not the entire market, but I
like that it's only big and profitable
companies." And my question is does that
actually matter to your returns? I mean,
it sounds like it's something that
should.
>> the way you make money as a stock
investor is by having stocks go up, not
by having companies make money.
>> But we also know that people like
growing companies that are investing in
their future growth by sacrificing
today's profits and that those might be
the big companies of the future, right?
So, oh, and like how how much should
investors care about profitability?
>> Right. So,
first of all, if you're going to be a
passive investor, I feel like
the S&P 500 is a is not really a passive
instrument. It's a curated instrument
that is discretionarily chosen by a
committee to add that they are not they
don't claim to be perfectly matching the
market cap of the United States or the
United States stock market. So, in that
sense, it's not really passive. And if
you want to be passive, that's not the
right instrument. And there are other
reasons that it's not the right Just 500
stocks, that's not enough. You want all
the stocks. Okay, so that's that's a
little rant about what it means to be a
passive. Having said that, if you were
going to have a rule, a rule that you
have to be profitable is not a bad rule
because academic research has shown that
more profitable companies tend to
outperform unprofitable companies. It's
usually described as quality,
high-quality companies with high
profits. But really, if you're that's
just one of many signals you should use.
So, if you're feeling like you want to
deviate from the market, you should
invest in a systematic fund that
systematically uses all kinds of signals
as opposed to kind of a slightly halfway
between a quantitative fund and a an
index fund. But, you know, there's
nothing wrong with the S&P 500. They
have a system, they're sticking to the
system, it's a good system, it's it's
worked. So, if you
for some reason
only your only choice between the S&P
500 and an and another one and you want
to get profitability or quality in
there, then that's fine.
>> We're going to take a quick break and
when we come back, we'll have more from
Acadian's Owen Lamont.
>> [music]
>> All right, so welcome back Owen. I wrote
an article
um this past week about how to invest in
SpaceX via your brokerage account and I
got an email from a reader who had a
question.
Um, basically wanted to know how to do
the opposite. He was like, how can I not
invest in SpaceX? I do not want exposure
to this thing. I I want to avoid it. He
said many investors including myself
want to stay very, very far away from
this company. But, for those who have
historically invested broadly through
index-based ETFs, it seems like this may
be very difficult to do. Of course, that
was before S&P made its decision to
exclude um SpaceX for now from the
index. But, what's your reaction to
that? That was from our reader Chris.
>> Okay. Well, this is really not really
about passive investing. This is really
like, how do I
make a portfolio that that targets a
certain thing that I like. So, the first
thing I would say is,
um if you don't like to invest in
SpaceX,
do you also not like Tesla which has
many similar characteristics to SpaceX?
So,
um if if your answer is, you know, I
only like certain kinds of funds that
don't have anything to do with due to
Elon Musk, certain kinds of stocks that
are, you know, not in certain industry,
then that's really active. You really
want an active manager in that situation
as opposed to an index one. But,
stepping back about your friend's
feelings,
I think it is a good feeling. It is a It
is a scientifically valid research has
suggested that it is a bad idea to buy
any IPO, and it is especially a bad idea
to buy an unprofitable IPO, and it is
also probably a bad idea to buy an IPO
with a small float. Many of the new IPOs
are going to like check those boxes. So,
I think it is true Look, let me put it
this way. It's never a smart idea to buy
an IPO, in my view, or at least on
average,
uh IPOs underperform even if you buy
them on assuming you buy them on the
first day at the market price. So, on
average, it's not a great idea to buy an
IPO at the market, and it's especially a
bad idea to buy at in the middle of an
IPO wave.
>> And by the market price, do you mean the
IPO price, or do you mean the first day
of trading?
>> The close price, as opposed to the offer
price. It is a great idea to buy an IPO
at the offer price and sell it 6 hours
later. If you If If If you could do
that, that's great.
>> Meaning if you got in through your
brokerage, right? Which Which Which
individual investors can do, and
obviously professional investors can
call up, you know, big investment banks
and do this. But you're saying if you
can actually get the the IPO at its
offer price before it begins trading in
that in that 24-hour period, you know,
ish before it begins trading. You're
saying that historically works out.
Well, I know the answer to that cuz I
actually wrote about this as well. Like,
IPO pops, as they're known, are
historically pretty positive, but then
the return after that is negative,
right?
>> And if you sell it right away, you
probably won't be allowed to buy the
next IPO because I wrote about that in
my article, which is, you know, these
brokerages don't want to see you doing
exactly what Owen just described, which
is to sell as soon as it pops.
>> Sorry, Owen, We got to plug our own
work, too, [laughter]
here, you know, bills to pay.
>> The the the IPO pop is a well-studied
phenomenon, and it's an amazing
phenomenon, cuz, you know, you you
usually wouldn't think a company would
be happy to sell something for less than
it's worth, but that's what an IPO pop
is. And it relates back to the float.
Um if you have a really low float, it
doesn't really matter if you're selling
the stock for half if it doubles on the
first day, because you're only selling a
small amount, and the rest of it is
going to be marked up. Um I'll also say
that
if if we were hypothetically in a big AI
bubble, one of the symptoms of an AI
bubble would be a lot of IPOs, and
another symptom would be a huge pop.
Many IPOs doubling. So, um if we see a
bunch of IPOs, and they all have huge
pops, that The last time that happened
was in 1990 was in 1999. So, that would
be That's kind of a symptom of
craziness.
>> Another great phrase you used in your uh
recent article, you called IPO waves the
third horseman of the bubble apocalypse.
We loved that phrase.
And I think it kind of gets at this
thing that I think is really behind the
fear that people have around having
SpaceX in their 401k or in their index
fund, and that's this feeling that we're
in a bubble, and that we're that this AI
bubble is about to pop, and people are
nervous, and they want to find a way to
avoid that. If you're a passive
investor, is there a way to avoid AI
right now? Is there a way to like be
defensive if you think we're in a
bubble?
>> Well, first of all, the easiest way to
be defensive is just to own less stocks,
to sell some of your shares, and buy
T-bills or whatever. And a disciplined
way to do that is to just rebalance
towards the fixed weights. And I
mentioned target date funds before.
Target date funds are generally have
fixed weights. So, if like the stock
market doubled, the target date fund
would rebalance down towards the fixed
weights. So, that's the easiest way for
an individual investor to do that. Um
the second thing I'd say is, you know,
if you're really afraid of AI, you then
you're you're holding a ton of AI right
now. You're holding Nvidia and and and
Alphabet and all the other stocks
affiliated with AI. So,
AI is a thing. It's a thing that's in
our economy, and if you want to hold
stocks, you're going to hold something
exposed to it. But, um
the the last thing I'll say about that
is
there are certainly some countries that
seem to be incredible AI uh plays, and
I'm thinking of the country of South
Korea, where the price of South Korea
the the the the the stock market of
South Korea tripled in the past year.
So,
you I would think that if you want to do
like underweight the United States,
Taiwan, and Korea and overweight Europe,
that would be a a way to um opt out of
AI. You know, I'm not sure that's a
great idea. Okay.
>> You could leave a lot on the table that
way as well. Yeah.
>> It's generally a good idea to overweight
the cheap things and underweight the
expensive things. And the countries I've
mentioned I just mentioned are all
pretty expensive.
>> Mhm.
So,
to to to Miriam's point about what
you've written about IPO waves being
real scary bubble indicators,
are we in the midst of an IPO wave? How
do you know when when when we're in one?
I mean, look, obviously SpaceX is is
this big event, but is that Do you think
that constitutes the signal? Is that
enough to say that we are?
>> Anthropic and OpenAI are coming.
>> As of today, early June,
we haven't seen a wave yet. We haven't
seen uh lots of IPOs. We're looking
ahead at a wave, but not hasn't occurred
yet. So, just as a practical matter,
what to me is an IPO wave? It's uh
hundreds and hundreds of IPOs every
year. So, if there haven't been five
IPOs in the past week, it's not an IPO
wave to me. Now, um
so, you might say that you really
shouldn't be counting the individual
IPOs, you should be counting the dollars
of the IPO. And it is true that SpaceX
and Anthropic together, say
hypothetically, that would be $3
trillion of market cap. That would be a
lot. That would be quite significant.
So,
if hypothetically, we just see one
SpaceX IPO and nothing else,
yeah, I wouldn't call that a wave. Um
we also haven't mentioned existing
companies because to me the reason I
call um issuance when I call say
issuance as the third horseman of the
apocalypse is not just IPOs. It's also
existing companies selling equity. And
existing companies stopping from
repurchasing equity. So, those things
all tend to happen at uh in a bubble.
That the the companies are just printing
printing more shares, new companies by
IPOs, existing companies by uh other
methods other methods of issuance.
>> Well, where are we in that cycle then?
If you take company share buybacks into
account, if you look at company equity
issuance, we know Google for example
didn't do an IPO. Obviously, it's been
public for a long time. But Alphabet
sold a ton of stock or announced that
they're going to issue a ton of stock.
If you add those things up, are we
looking wavier?
>> Okay, so first of all, the the Google um
equity issuance is interesting because
it's about the same amount of dollars as
the amount that of the IPO the the the
offering amount of SpaceX. So, they're
both, you know, about $80 billion
events. Um
I think it's too soon to tell.
Uh
if you asked me 6 months ago, I would
have said, "There's no issuance going at
all on at all. There's no IPOs and all
these big companies are repurchasing."
And what we've seen just in the past 3
weeks, we've seen companies such as
Google announcing issuance. And we've
seen companies announcing they're
reducing repurchases. So, I would I need
to we need to monitor that situation and
see if it actually happens. So, it
hasn't happened yet. It's it's kind of
like um you go to the doctor, the doctor
take a take the test, and you haven't
got the test results back, but you kind
of know what the test results are going
to be. That's how I feel about the the
issuance that's happening right now.
>> So, we've been talking about bubbliness
and all that. But but you know,
we're always looking for bubbles and
often not finding them. What's the other
story you could tell about this?
>> All right, here's the story I'm going to
tell. Um and this is going to be a
little long-winded cuz I need to explain
some academic concepts.
The efficient market hypothesis, I was a
professor for 8 years at the University
of Chicago. The efficient market
hypothesis is the theory that prices are
always correct. They're
forward-lookingly uh
correctly incorporating forward-looking
information. That's the efficient market
hypothesis. And the alternative to that
which is behavioral finance. That's the
idea that the market can make mistakes
sometimes. So, the efficient market
hypothesis says that if the price of
SpaceX is very high, that's going to be
justified by subsequent cash flows going
to shareholders. So, that's that's what
that means. Now, uh the last time I
taught uh
finance, I was at Harvard in 2016, and I
still have my my notes and my my slides.
And at that time, I said something like
Tesla's obviously overvalued compared to
Ford, and people are stupid for buying
Tesla cuz they're expecting it to do too
well. So, in the subsequent 4 years 5
years after I made that statement, Tesla
did fantastically well. The earnings
were up, the revenues were up,
everything was great. So, Tesla for the
period 2016 to 2021 was a triumph of the
efficient market hypothesis. The market
is smart. It knows stuff. It it's it's
weighing the different possibilities,
and it's assigning the right price. So,
the the um
scenario under which today's market is
properly priced is the same scenario
under which scenario under which Tesla
was properly priced in 2016. Namely,
they're giving the market a high price,
and it's going to be uh appropriately
it's going to be rewarded
and um validated by fantastic future
corporate profits. And I would say that
I don't think anybody should be super
confident that we're in a bubble or the
the market's overvalued. It's very, very
uncertain situation here. Revolutionary
new technology. It's obviously a
fantastic technology. And I think there
are um you know, let me contrast it with
crypto, okay? Crypto
is a joke. It is not a real technology.
It is not good. There's nothing good
about it. AI, that is amazing. That is
an amazing technology that is going to
transform all of society. So, there is
every reason to be optimistic about
corporate uh earnings. You know, I think
maybe people are too optimistic, but
it's a defensible position.
>> All right. Well, Owen Lamont, this has
been a fantastic conversation. I think
we've learned a ton about IPOs uh and
also just how to think about markets and
bubbles. Uh tons of stuff for people to
think about. Thanks so much for joining
us.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Okay, I think we have the next hit
Broadway show on our hands, by the
[laughter] way. A sequel to Hamilton,
but about the first IPO in America.
Okay?
>> nerds, rejoice.
>> not tell anyone about this.